{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This paper is a contribution to abstract homotopy theory: in the main it is an extended investigation of conditions under which the trivial cofibrations of a model structure are stable under pullback along the fibrations (a condition closely related to right properness). A general axiomatic framework is introduced, related to one of Cisinski, which ensures that this condition holds; as a particular application, the authors' results allow for a new proof of the right properness of the Kan model structure on simplicial sets. With motivation from homotopy type theory, the authors consider the pullback-stability property also in an "algebraic" form, algebraic in the sense of the weak factorisation systems considered by Tholen, Grandis, Garner, Riehl et al. This makes the paper rather more involved than would otherwise be the case.\
\
My view is that this paper contains some important original results, in particular the new proof of right properness of simplicial sets (and related model structures). I have spoken to a few homotopy theorists about this proof and they agree that it is new, and rather easier than the existing proofs in the literature using geometric realisation or minimal fibrations. I think this on its own makes the paper worth publishing, and I think JPAA would be a reasonable place to do this. The paper is clear and its mathematical arguments seem to me to be correct.\
\
Against this, I was not convinced by the way the paper is set out, and I would like to ask the authors to reorganise things somewhat before recommending acceptance. It feels a bit longer than the content warrants, and a bit inaccessible to some of its potential audience, and I wonder if a restructuring and change of emphasis could help with both of these points. Here are two \'a0particular thoughts about this:\
\
- I suspect that many readers will not be that interested in the "algebraic" aspects of the results presented here, and the authors never really make a convincing case as to why they consider it. I understand there are specific reasons coming from homotopy type theory why we would want the "uniform Frobenius condition", but without seeing this explained one might think the authors are simply making life harder for themselves for no particular reason by pursuing spurious generality. I don't believe the generality is spurious, but given that there is a large part of the audience who are not particularly interested it would perhaps be better if this aspect was deemphasised. In particular, because section 2 jumps straight into a whole range of "algebraic" concerns without much motivation as to why these are interesting, \'a0I think it may be likely to put people off reading the paper properly.\
\
- I feel like the paper might be multiplying entities beyond necessity. Is it really required that we have several different definitions of the Frobenius condition? In the end, which one will we actually use? It is a bit hard to understand this with the paper in its present form because it is silent about the intended applications in homotopy type theory. But it seems like Prop 2.15/Defn 2.16 are really what is needed, and the other formulations are only really necessary for (eg) proving Theorem 2.17. \'a0Similarly, it is really necessary to prove the various results in Section 5 separately from where they are used in Section 6? This ties back in to the first point: if one was paying less attention to functoriality, then it would be easier to prove the results of Section 6 by folding in (much of) Section 5 directly into the proofs. \
\
Now, given that the algebraic aspects is clearly important for the homotopy type theory applications, it should surely remain. However, I think that is would be very helpful to give first a more elementary version of the main results which do not consider the functorial aspects. The arguments would be shorter, and in giving the subsequent adaptation to the functorial case many of the details could be left to the reader as routine checking. \'a0\
\
Here is one possible suggestion as to how the paper might be reorganised along these lines. It could start by explicitly setting out an axiomatic framework for the main result in the "non-algebraic" case: a locally presentable category equipped with a combinatorial weak factorisation system (C,TF) and a functorial cylinder satisfying the appropriate axioms (eg C is stable under pullback, ...) Then give examples: simplicial sets, cubical sets, certainly, but also maybe other things: categories, chain complexes, 2-categories, bicategories, Gray-categories...?\
\
Next one can state and prove the main result in the non-functorial case: define the generating "naive trivial cofibrations" (maps of the form delta_i \\hat\{x\} f for f a generating cofibration and i = 0,1) and so the "naive fibrations". Then define strong i-homotopy equivalences and "i-Hurewicz fibrations" (maps for which (pi_i, Pf) has a section) and show (elementarily) that strong i-homotopy equivalences are stable under pullback along (1-i)-Hurewicz fibrations. \'a0This is somehow the central result of the paper and should not be consigned to an appendix! Then one shows that the strong i-homotopy equivalences are precisely the retracts of maps of the form delta_i \\hat\{x\} f and so (with appropriate further assumptions) that each generating map delta_i \\hat\{x\} f pulls back along each naive fibration to a retract of such a map, so obtaining the (non-functorial) Frobenius condition and so the suitable properness. All this could reasonably be done in ~5 pages, and would contain the heart of what most non-homotopy type theorists would want to get out of the paper. \
\
Then one could go on and consider the functorial case. Again, it's not clear to me what exactly is needed for the applications to homotopy type theory, but I would suggest that only the minimal version need be given. (It would be nice to have a short explanation of why exactly you need this.) Obtaining functoriality might actually be simplified from the present treatment. If you have structure like a functorial cylinder and an algebraic weak factorisation system on C, then you induce one pointwise on each [A,C]. It feels like, by exploiting this, maybe you don't need to give much beyond the elementary argument from the "non-functorial" case. \
\
The final part would be to verify the relation between the functorial and the non-functorial version, which is essentially the (rather non-trivial and clever) argument of Section 4.\
\
Of course, this is only one possible way of reorganising the paper, but I feel like something along these lines would be very helpful in terms of selling the results of the paper to an audience beyond that of homotopy type theory.}